Initial draft of (most of) section 3, the #-directives (#56)
j3-fortran/fpp-202y: drafts/25-xxx-specifications.txt

Reviewer: In today's meeting we resolved to add a new placeholder section for the Fortran `INCLUDE` line, possibly in a separate PR.

I suggest we iterate on the actual content for that new section in a follow-on PR.

Author: Agreed. See #58.

      | ID                  | Regex [A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9_]*               |
      | WHOLE_NUMBER        | Regex [0-9]+                              |
      | REAL_NUMBER         | Fortran 2023 R714 real-literal-constant.  |

>       | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*"                           |

Reviewer: Following up from a discussion point in our meeting, there was a question about corner-case inputs like this:

```
#include "stddef.h\
"
```

It appears this *IS* permitted by C23, because line conjoining removes the backslash-newline _before_ tokenization of the character string. I think we are specifying the same behavior, meaning the regexs in this token list (eg. `CHARACTER_STRING`) are applied AFTER line conjoining.

Agreed?

Author: I think that is right. Conjoining takes precedence over tokenization. I thing this also handles Patrick's concern about `CHARACTER_STRING` regex below (and then some).

>       | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*"                           |

Author: Hmmm. If we add Dan's suggestion above about token recognition being performed after conjoining (which I think is the correct stance), then the `CHARACTER_STRING` regex doesn't have to mention new-line at all. EOL is a token that the lexer produces at the end of a directive line. So the raw text line
```C
# define X "I'm starting a string
continued on another line"
```
does not contain a well-formed `CHARACTER_STRING` token. It is rejected in lexical analysis as ill-formed. It's just something else.

(You could make the case (I won't) that the tokens represented above are `#`, `DEFINE`, `ID("X")`, `DOUBLE_QUOTE` `ID("I")`, `SINGLE_QUOTE`, `ID("m")`, `ID("starting")`, `ID("a")`, `ID("string")` `EOL`, `ID("continued")`, `ID("on")`, `ID("another")`, `ID("line")` `EOL`)

But the raw text below, before conjoining, does contain a valid `CHARACTER_STRING` token after conjoining:
```C
# define X "I'm starting a string\
"
```

>       | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*"                           |

Author: By the way, we don't explicitly use `\n` anywhere else, but we do use the C standard's term _new-line_ where (like them) we want to avoid concerning ourselves with line termination encodings. I just couldn't put _new-line_ in the original regex.

>       | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*"                           |

Author: I could add a note to that effect.
```suggestion
      | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*" where \n represents new-line |
```

>       | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*"                           |

Author: I added the note in the updated commit. (I didn't edit the table row length; we'll fix that up in final edits.)

-----------------------------------------------

See also the rules for expanding function-like macros in the
section "Macro recognition and expansion" below.

Example syntax:
      #define ID() replacement-list EOL
      #define ID(identifier-list) replacement-list EOL
      #define ID(...) replacement-list EOL
      #define ID(identifier-list, ...) replacement-list EOL

3.2.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

df02. The identifier ID must be immediately followed by the
      left parenthesis '(' with no intervening whitespace.

df04. The identifier-list is a comma-separated list of ID tokens.

df06. No identifier may appear more than once in the identifier-list.

df08. The identifier names in the identifier-list have "scope" in the
      replacement list. (See the section on macro expansion for the
      semantics of function-like macro expansion.)

df10. The replacement-list may be the empty sequence of tokens.

df12. Whitespace before or after the replacement-list is not
      considered to be part of the replacement-list.

df16. The "..." between the parentheses specifies that the function-like

>       macro may be invoked with a variable number of arguments. (See the
>       section on macro expansion for the semantics of function-like macros

Author: I tend to avoid specific subsection numbers in systems that don't support reference links (such as this kind of .txt paper). Maybe a better compromise might be to use the full section name:
```suggestion
      macro may be invoked with a variable number of arguments. (See the
      "Macro recognition and expansion" section below for the semantics of function-like macros
```

>       section on macro expansion for the semantics of function-like macros

Author: Addressed in the updated commits. I made a couple other changes to make the use consistent throughout the document.

-------------------------------------

ud02. ID shall not be one of the macros defined in the "Predefined macros"
      section below.

ud04. The specified identifier may or may not have been defined.

3.3.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

ud20. If no definition exists for the identifier ID, this directive has
      no effect.

ud22. The definition for the object-like macro or function-like macro
      named by ID is removed.

ud24.

3.4 The '#include' directive
----------------------------

Example syntax:
      #include CHARACTER_STRING EOL
      #include <character-list> EOL
      #include token-list EOL

3.4.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

in04. CHARACTER_STRING shall not include a kind type parameter.

in06. In the second form, the character-list is any sequence of
      processor-specific characters except EOL and `>`.

in08. In the third form, the token-list does not match the previous
      two forms.

3.4.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

in18. In the third form, the token-list is processed as in normal

>       text (see the section on Macro Recognition and Expansion below).

Author: Will make this change and push a new set of commits.

--------------------------------------

df02. The identifier ID must be immediately followed by the
      left parenthesis '(' with no intervening whitespace.

df04. The identifier-list is a comma-separated list of ID tokens.

df06. No identifier may appear more than once in the identifier-list.

df08. The identifier names in the identifier-list have "scope" in the
      replacement list. (See the section "Macro recognition and expansion" for the
      semantics of function-like macro expansion.)

df10. The replacement-list may be the empty sequence of tokens.

df12. Whitespace before or after the replacement-list is not
      considered to be part of the replacement-list.

df16. The "..." between the parentheses specifies that the function-like
      macro may be invoked with a variable number of arguments. (See the
      section "Macro recognition and expansion" for the semantics of function-like macros
      with a variable number of arguments.)

3.2.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

df30. This #define directive defines a function-like macro with parameters
      (dummy arguments) as specified in the identifier-list and function

>       body as specified in the replacement list.

Author: I won't pretend to like using "dummy argument" here in the first place. So I am good with this change.

      be redefined by another #define preprocessing directive unless
      the second definition is a function-like macro definition and
      the two replacement lists are identical (as in C 2023).

3.3 The '#undef' directive
--------------------------

Example syntax:
      #undef ID EOL

3.3.1 Static semantics specifications
-------------------------------------

ud02. ID shall not be one of the macros defined in the "Predefined macros"
      section below.

ud04. The specified identifier may or may not have been defined.

3.3.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

ud20. If no definition exists for the identifier ID, this directive has
      no effect.

ud22. The definition for the object-like macro or function-like macro
      named by ID is removed.

ud24.

3.4 The '#include' directive
----------------------------

Example syntax:
      #include CHARACTER_STRING EOL
      #include <character-list> EOL
      #include token-list EOL

3.4.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

in06. In the second form, the character-list is any sequence of

>       processor-specific characters except EOL and `>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      processor-dependent characters except EOL and `>`.
```

in08. In the third form, the token-list does not match the previous
      two forms.

3.4.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

in18. In the third form, the token-list is processed as in Fortran
      source fragments (see the section on "Macro recognition and
      expansion" below). The directive resulting after all replacements
      shall match one of the previous two forms, and evaluation proceeds
      as such.

in20. The preprocessor searches in processor-defined places for the
      file denoted by the CHARACTER_STRING or the character-list.

in22. It is an error if the processor cannot locate the specified file.

in24. If the file is located, the processor replaces the #include
      directive line with the contents of that file.

in26. A #include directive may appear in an included file, up to a
      processor-defined nesting limit.

> 

Reviewer: One subtle but important way in which `#include` differs from `INCLUDE` lines, the latter specifies:

> Inclusion of the source text referenced by an INCLUDE line shall not, at any level of nesting, result in inclusion of the same source text.

Given that Fortran precedent, I think that (at least for the purposes of this document) it's worth explicitly calling out the fact that `#include` does NOT have that restriction. Eg:

```suggestion
in28. Unlike INCLUDE lines (see the section on "INCLUDE lines"), 
      the #include directive is not prohibited from including the
      same source file at a deeper level of nesting.
```

Reviewer 2: @bonachea does that mean that Fortran `INCLUDE` has the equivalent of `#pragma once` in every included file? In C one always has `#ifdef` guards or `#pragma once` but this sounds like Fortran doesn't need that?

Reviewer: @gklimowicz asks:
> Do we have a use case for this? Otherwise, my naive preference is to behave as Fortran `INCLUDE` does.

Yes absolutely, this detail is **_very_** important in the context of CPP `#include`.

 In well-written C/C++ headers the standard idiom is every header has the following structure (after comments are removed).
my_header.h:
```
#ifndef _MY_HEADER_H
#define _MY_HEADER_H

// .. entire body of the header...

#include <foo.h> /* for example.. */

#endif
```
With this idiom in-place, recursive inclusion of a header (possibly through one or more intermediaries) becomes harmless and well-defined (the nested expansion is empty).

This is a very important feature property because: with larger numbers of headers the dependency include graph encompassing them all can become very complicated, and information about what each header needs might be a local property that changes over time. With the CPP semantics of `#include` and idiom above, if `foo.h` ever expands to contain `#include <my_header.h>` (possibly through some nested intermediary header) this nested/repeated include is harmless and ignored.

@kc9jud asks:
> does that mean that Fortran INCLUDE has the equivalent of #pragma once in every included file? In C one always has #ifdef guards or #pragma once but this sounds like Fortran doesn't need that?

`#pragma once` is a NON-standard conforming mechanism provided by many C/C++ compilers to solve the same problem. The pattern I've shown above is a standards-conforming solution.

My understanding of the Fortran `INCLUDE` line specification (see above) is NOT equivalent to `#pragma once`. A nested Fortran `INCLUDE` line is a "shall not" constraint violation, and thus simply erroneous (which is NOT the behavior we want for `#include`).

Reviewer 3: The Fortran standard says for INCLUDE:

32 5 The effect of the INCLUDE line is as if the referenced source text physically replaced the INCLUDE line prior
33 to program processing. Included text may contain any source text, including additional INCLUDE lines; such
34 nested INCLUDE lines are similarly replaced with the specified source text. The maximum depth of nesting of
35 any nested INCLUDE lines is processor dependent. **Inclusion of the source text referenced by an INCLUDE line
36 shall not, at any level of nesting, result in inclusion of the same source text.**

This is, of course, a restriction on what is standard-conforming source and is not a constraint, but rather normative text. Since we have already said that we want `#include` to behave like `INCLUDE`, I think it should follow the same restriction.

Reviewer 2: @bonachea is there actually a use case for allowing cyclic dependency graphs with either `INCLUDE` or `#include` though? I'll be honest that I've usually found the need for an include guard to be a shortcoming of CPP rather than a feature.

Reviewer: FWIW both gfortran-14 and flang-20 handle this correctly in a manner matching the CPP behavior. Here's a toy example where there are two headers, and including either of them has the effect of including them both:

```
==> bar.h <==
#ifndef INCLUDED_BAR_H
#define INCLUDED_BAR_H

#include "foo.h"

integer :: bar

#endif

==> foo.h <==
#ifndef INCLUDED_FOO_H
#define INCLUDED_FOO_H

#include "bar.h"

integer :: foo

#endif

==> test.F90 <==
#include "foo.h"
```
```
$ gfortran -E test.F90
# 1 "test.F90"
# 1 "<built-in>"
# 1 "<command-line>"
# 1 "test.F90"

# 1 "foo.h" 1

# 1 "bar.h" 1

# 1 "foo.h" 1
# 5 "bar.h" 2

integer :: bar

# 5 "foo.h" 2

integer :: foo

# 2 "test.F90" 2
```
```
$ flang -E test.F90   
#line "./bar.h" 6
      integer :: bar
#line "./foo.h" 6
      integer :: foo

```

Thus existing practice also argues for keeping CPP's permissiveness on recursive `#include`.

3.5 The '#if', '#ifdef', '#ifndef', '#elif', '#elifdef',
      '#elifndef', '#else', '#endif' directives
---------------------------------------------------------

Example syntax:

3.5.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

3.5.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

3.6 The '#error' and '#warning' directives
------------------------------------------

Example syntax:
        #error token-list EOL
        #warning token-list EOL

The #error and #warning directives are used to announce user-defined
error conditions in the input.

3.6.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

3.6.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

ew02. The token-list is not expanded.

ew04. The processor produces a diagnostic message that includes
      the token-list.

> ew06. The #error directive causes the compilation process to end after
>       preprocessing the input files.
> 
> ew08. The #warning directive allows compilation to continue after
>       preprocessing.

Reviewer: Dictating exactly what happens to "the compilation process" here may be over-reach.

C23 simply says:
> causes the implementation to produce a diagnostic message that includes the specified sequence of preprocessing tokens.

I think implementations may even differ in whether they stop immediately upon encountering the first `#error`, or whether they try to continue further. Definitely the text above implying implementations are required to _complete_ preprocessing of all inputs after encountering an `#error` seems wrong.

What if anything does Fortran say about how processors are required to handle an compilation error after detection?
4.2 includes text like:

> A Fortran processor shall: ...
contain the capability to detect and report the use within a submitted program unit of a form or relationship that is not permitted by the numbered syntax rules or constraints,

I suspect we just want to delete these two rules, leaving the "processor-specific" rule below.

```suggestion
```

Author: I'm fine with this.

Author: I'm OK with this.

> ew10. Additional behavior is processor-specific.

Reviewer: "processor-specific" does not appear to be proper "Fortran-ese".

```suggestion
ew10. Additional behavior is processor-dependent.
```

Author: I should just put that in my auto-correct. :-)

> 3 #-Directives

Reviewer: Please add `EOL` to the list of tokens appearing in the illustrative syntax. I suggest something like:

```
| EOL                 | The new-line ending a directive line,     |
|                     |  after continuation processing (see li15) |

3.1 The '#define' object-like macro directive
---------------------------------------------

See also the rules for expanding object-like macros in the
section "Macro recognition and expansion" below.

Example syntax:
      #define ID replacement-list EOL

3.1.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

do02. The replacement-list is a (possibly empty) sequence of tokens.

do04. The identifier ID must be immediately followed by whitespace
      or EOL.

do06. Whitespace before or after the replacement-list is not
      considered to be part of the replacement-list.

3.1.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

do20. The #define directive defines the identifier denoted by ID
      to be the sequence of tokens specified in the replacement list.

do22. There is one namespace for all macro identifiers.

do24. The #define directive does not scan the replacement-list
      for macros to expand.

do26. An identifier currently defined as an object-like macro shall not
      be redefined by another #define preprocessing directive unless
      the second definition is an object-like macro definition and

>       the two replacement lists are identical (as in C 2023).

Author: I believe it is an error. From C 2023, 6.10.4

> "Two replacement lists are identical if and only if the preprocessing tokens in both have the same
> number, ordering, spelling, and white-space separation, where all white-space separations are
> considered identical.
> An identifier currently defined as an object-like macro shall not be redefined by another #define
> preprocessing directive unless the second definition is an object-like macro definition and the two
> replacement lists are identical."

Now in the Fortran standard, "shall not" typically means "must not". But I have a dollar that says that some current implementations default to a warning.

>       the two replacement lists are identical (as in C 2023).

Reviewer: I'm fine with this wording, implying it's an error.

Some implementations are permissive, but IMO deliberately changing a define without `#undef` is a terrible programming practice and should always be a hard error. If you're _intentionally_ changing a definition, you should always start with `#undef`. If you're not, then an error should alert you to the conflict.

do28. Two replacement lists are identical if and only if the
      preprocessing tokens in both have the same number, ordering,
      spelling, and white-space separation, where all white-space
      separations are considered identical (as in C 2023).

3.2 The '#define' function-like macro directive
-----------------------------------------------

See also the rules for expanding function-like macros in the
section "Macro recognition and expansion" below.

Example syntax:
      #define ID() replacement-list EOL
      #define ID(identifier-list) replacement-list EOL
      #define ID(...) replacement-list EOL
      #define ID(identifier-list, ...) replacement-list EOL

3.2.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

df02. The identifier ID must be immediately followed by the
      left parenthesis '(' with no intervening whitespace.

> df04. The identifier-list is a comma-separated list of ID tokens.

Author: I agree. df04 doesn't specify anything about whitespace, so the usual whitespace rules apply. (Maybe we need to say more about that.)

df02 is the only place where the usual whitespace rules don't apply. That's the intention, at least.

> df04. The identifier-list is a comma-separated list of ID tokens.

Reviewer 2: Got it -- I was slightly concerned because I didn't know if "comma-separated" allowed for spaces around commas. (In the detailed spec I suppose we will have to define "comma-separated" more precisely.)

df30. This #define directive defines a function-like macro with parameters
      (dummy arguments) as specified in the identifier-list and function
      body as specified in the replacement list.

df32. This #define directive does not scan the replacement-list
      for macros to expand.

df34. An identifier currently defined as a function-like macro shall not
      be redefined by another #define preprocessing directive unless
      the second definition is a function-like macro definition and
      the two replacement lists are identical (as in C 2023).

3.3 The '#undef' directive
--------------------------

Example syntax:
      #undef ID EOL

3.3.1 Static semantics specifications
-------------------------------------

ud02. ID shall not be one of the macros defined in the "Predefined macros"
      section below.

ud04. The specified identifier may or may not have been defined.

3.3.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

ud20. If no definition exists for the identifier ID, this directive has
      no effect.

ud22. The definition for the object-like macro or function-like macro
      named by ID is removed.

> ud24.
> 
> 3.4 The '#include' directive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.4 The '#include' directive
```

----------------------------

Example syntax:
      #include CHARACTER_STRING EOL

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Author: At the discussion at a recent (the last?) meeting there was feedback that some didn't want the third option at all, and there were negative comments about even the pointy-bracket `<` ... `>` option.

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Reviewer 2: I think having the token-list option is more important to me than having two different spellings of regular `#include`...

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Reviewer: I also think the token-list option is important. It notably generalizes producer-consumer include patterns where one module produces a header file (with a module specific-name) that is consumed by a second module via include. This syntax specifically allows the consumer to avoid hard-coding the name of the shared header, allowing the producer to determine an appropriate file name.

Here's an self-contained example distilled from real code in one of my projects:

consumer.c:
```
#ifndef STRINGIFY
#define STRINGIFY_HELPER(x) #x
#define STRINGIFY(x) STRINGIFY_HELPER(x)
#endif

#ifdef PRODUCER_HEADER
/* use the token-list syntax of #include: */
#include STRINGIFY(PRODUCER_HEADER)
#endif

/* body of code that depends on #defines optionally provided in PRODUCER_HEADER */
```

build command, invoked by the producer to build its dependency consumer.o:
```
$ cc -DPRODUCER_HEADER=producer_config.h consumer.c
```
Where `producer_config.h` is a long, auto-generated header produced by a configure script in the producer.

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Reviewer: > having the token-list option is more important to me than having two different spellings of regular `#include`

Upon further reflection, I think the Fortran `INCLUDE` line _may already_ give us access to the desired functionality. In particular, a Fortran `INCLUDE` line is a regular (non-directive) Fortran source fragment, and thus (unless we say otherwise) is also subject to regular macro expansion.

As such, I think my prior example could have been written for FPP as:
```
#ifndef STRINGIFY
#define STRINGIFY_HELPER(x) #x
#define STRINGIFY(x) STRINGIFY_HELPER(x)
#endif

#ifdef PRODUCER_HEADER
! use a Fortran INCLUDE line:
INCLUDE STRINGIFY(PRODUCER_HEADER)
#endif

! body of code that depends on #defines optionally provided in PRODUCER_HEADER 
```

If we adequately specify the above pattern must work, then I suspect that spelling can (with mostly trivial differences) provide the missing capability for Fortran codes. With that in-place I believe the (controversial?) `# include pp-tokens new-line` form becomes mostly redundant and can be safely omitted.

I think the key to making this work is a new subsection somewhere about how Fortran `INCLUDE` lines are handled. We probably need this anyhow because of the interaction with preprocessing in general, and the macro namespace in particular. In that section we add a rule saying that `INCLUDE` lines are subject to macro expansion (just like any other non-directive line), and that the argument is interpreted after macro expansion.

Thoughts @kc9jud ?

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Author: You're right that we're missing the section about `INCLUDE`. I believe that when we add it that we allow the same syntax for `INCLUDE` and `#include`, but I haven't yet looked closely at any subtleties.

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Reviewer 2: @bonachea That's fine by me, though at that point I'm not sure why we would allow `INCLUDE EXPAND_ME` but not `#include EXPAND_ME`...

>       #include <character-list> EOL

Author: I've written up issue #58 to track this for another pull request.

3.4.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

> in02. In the first form, the CHARACTER_STRING may be delimited with
>       single-quote "'" or double-quote '"' characters.

Reviewer: C does NOT allow single-quote to delimit the CHARACTER_STRING in `#include`, and both gcc and gfortran currently consider this a hard error.

I suspect this is an attempt to be more "Fortran-friendly" in matching Fortran character literal constant syntax, but we're not accepting other Fortran-specific character literal syntax (e.g. kind type parameters). However because C compilers (and some current Fortran compilers) will reject this syntax, I think allowing single-quote strings in `#include` encourages a non-portable programming practice.

Do we really want this extension?

```suggestion
in02. In the first form, the CHARACTER_STRING must be delimited with
      double-quote '"' characters (not single-quote "'" characters).
```

> in04. A "_kind" specifier shall not appear following the CHARACTER_STRING.

Reviewer: According to F23, the optional kind type parameter actually comes _before_ a character literal constant. However the positioning is also an irrelevant detail.

```suggestion
in04. CHARACTER_STRING shall not include a kind type parameter.
```

However at this point it might just be easier to simply redefine `CHARACTER_STRING`:

```
 | CHARACTER_STRING    | RegEx "[^"\n]*"  |
```
which allows us to delete this rule and the one above it.

Reviewer: In today's meeting we resolved to define the `CHARACTER_STRING` token as suggested above, and adjust all references accordingly.

in22. It is an error if the preprocessor can't locate the specified file.

in24. If the file is located, the preprocessor replaces the #include
      directive line with the contents of that file.

in26. A #include directive may appear in an included file, up to a
      processor-defined nesting limit.

3.5 The '#if', '#ifdef', '#ifndef', '#elif', '#elifdef',
      '#elifndef', '#else', '#endif' directives
---------------------------------------------------------

Example syntax:

3.5.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

3.5.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

3.6 The '#error' and '#warning' directives
------------------------------------------

Example syntax:
        #error token-list EOL
        #warning token-list EOL

The #error and #warning directives are used to announce user-defined
error conditions in the input.

3.6.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

3.6.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

ew02. The token-list is expanded.

ew04. The preprocessor produces a diagnostic message that includes

>       the result of the token expansion.

Author: Well that sure makes sense.

> ew06. The #error directive causes the compilation process to and after

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ew06. The #error directive causes the compilation process to end after
```

      preprocessing the input files.

ew08. The #warning directive allows compilation to continue after
      preprocessing.

ew10. Additional behavior is processor-specific.

3.7 The '#line' directive
-------------------------

Example syntax:
        #line WHOLE_NUMBER EOL
        #line WHOLE_NUMBER CHARACTER_STRING EOL

3.7.1 Static semantics specifications
--------------------------------------

li02. The WHOLE_NUMBER shall not be zero.

li04. The WHOLE_NUMBER shall not exceed 2147483647.

3.7.2 Evaluation semantics specifications
-----------------------------------------

> li20. In the first example, the #line directive causes the preprocessor
>       to behave as if the following sequence of Fortran source lines or
>       comment lines begins with a source line that has a line number
>       specified by the WHOLE_NUMBER.

Reviewer: This wording seems to imply the altered numbering does not apply to directive lines, which it also does.

We've also switched from calling the syntax "forms" to "examples". Use "forms"

Rewording for more precision:
```suggestion
li20. In both forms, the #line directive causes the processor
      to behave as if the following sequence of lines begins with a 
      presumed line number specified by the WHOLE_NUMBER.
```

> li22. In the second example, the #line directive causes the preprocessor
>       to behave as if the following sequence of Fortran source lines or
>       comment lines begins with a source line that has a line number
>       specified by the WHOLE_NUMBER.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> li24. In the second example, the #line directive causes the preprocessor
>       to change the presumed file name of the source file to be the
>       contents of the CHARACTER_STRING.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
li24. In the second form, the #line directive causes the processor
      to change the presumed file name of the source file to be the
      contents of the CHARACTER_STRING.

li25. In the second form, the CHARACTER_STRING must be delimited with
      double-quote '"' characters (not single-quote "'" characters).
```
